PKCS#11: Document SoftHSM2 remote usage (#9264)
PowerDNS/pdns: docs/dnssec/pkcs11.rst

    pdnsutil show-zone example.com

SoftHSM2 with forwarding
------------------------

Based on https://p11-glue.github.io/p11-glue/p11-kit/manual/remoting.html.

You need to install ``gnutls-bin`` to get token URLs.

> You cannot run ``p11-kit server`` as root, so you will need some user for running it. This user must belong to ``softhsm`` group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You cannot run ``p11-kit server`` as root, so you will need some user for running it. This user must be in the ``softhsm`` group.
```

> These commands need to be ran as the non-root user (we shall call it tokenuser)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These commands need to be run as the non-root user (we shall call it ``tokenuser``).
```

> First, setup your token::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, set up your token::
```

   softhsm2-util --init-token --label "ecdsa#1" --pin 1234 --so-pin 1234 --free

>    pkcs11-tool --module /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/softhsm/libsofthsm2.so --keypairgen --key-type EC:prime256v1 --pin 1234 -a 'my key'

Reviewer: How does this command know it should use the token you inited one line earlier? Am I missing something?

Author: Well, it works if you only have one slot in use. But I guess I could figure out the syntax for specifying slot too.

Ensure it's there::

   pkcs11-tool --module /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/softhsm/libsofthsm2.so -l -O -p 1234

> Setup forwarding::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up forwarding::
```

  cat <<EOF > /etc/pkcs11/modules/p11-kit-client.module
  module: /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pkcs11/p11-kit-client.so
  EOF

>   p11-kit server -u pdns --provider /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/softhsm/libsofthsm2.so "pkcs11:model=SoftHSM%20v2;manufacturer=SoftHSM%20project;serial=29fdc44dc0d61539;token=ecdsa%231"     

Reviewer: should we point out that people can't just copy this serial?

Author: You have to copy the entire URL. I should point this out.

  P11_KIT_SERVER_ADDRESS=unix:path=/run/user/1000/p11-kit/pkcs11-5198; export P11_KIT_SERVER_ADDRESS;
  P11_KIT_SERVER_PID=5199; export P11_KIT_SERVER_PID;

You will need those values in PowerDNS running environment. Now you can verify that the token is reachable as ``pdns`` user with::

  pkcs11-tool --module /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pkcs11/p11-kit-client.so -T
  Available slots:
  Slot 0 (0x10): SoftHSM slot ID 0x40d61539
    token label        : ecdsa#1
    token manufacturer : SoftHSM project
    token model        : SoftHSM v2
    token flags        : login required, rng, token initialized, PIN initialized, other flags=0x20
    hardware version   : 2.5
    firmware version   : 2.5
    serial num         : 29fdc44dc0d61539
    pin min/max        : 4/255

Then assign the HSM token to your zone with::

>   ~/pdns/bin/pdnsutil hsm assign hsm.test ecdsa256 ksk p11-kit-client 'ecdsa#1' 1234 'my key'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  pdnsutil hsm assign example.com ecdsa256 ksk p11-kit-client 'ecdsa#1' 1234 'my key'
```

> And then verify with ``show-zone`` that now the zone has valid key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And then verify with ``show-zone`` that the zone now has a valid key.
```

You can do this over SSH as well::

    ssh -R /var/run/pdns/pkcs11:${P11_KIT_SERVER_ADDRESS#*=} pdns@server
    export P11_KIT_SERVER_ADDRESS=/var/run/pdns/pkcs11

Verify that the token is visible::

   pkcs11-tool --module /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/pkcs11/p11-kit-client.so -T 

> Then use the hsm assign command like before to assign key to your zone, and now you have DNSSEC over SSH.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then use the ``pdnsutil hsm assign`` command like before to assign the key to your zone; now you have DNSSEC over SSH.
```
